Brian Tracy’s book Bullseye outlines how powerful the skills of successful people can be on hitting our life’s targets. He outlines the exact steps we need to take in order to achieve our biggest goals in life.

If you aren’t familiar with Brian Tracy, he’s an author who has written over seventy books, is a world renowned speaker and trainer in todays’ world. He excels in leadership, sales, personal and business success, and is a famous thought leader. He has written books like Eat That Frog, No Excuses!, Goals! Maximum Achievement, The Psychology of Selling, Create Your Own Future, and tons more.

So –  I highly recommend this book because it’s great for everyone. Brian Tracy’s Bulls-Eye: The Power of Focus is great for employees, bosses and CEO’s, entrepreneurs, parents, college students – anyone you can think of that wants to achieve something in their life.

You can read it in an evening (I did) and you walk away with actionable steps to achieve your goals. He dips into a few strategies he’s used in other books, yet you can use them with immediate results.

This book summary covers my own personal notes from the book in this post, but for the full impact and interesting stories, I recommend getting the book yourself and reading it! There’s a lot here that’s missing from my summary that is in the book itself.

Keep in mind as well, my notes may be a little scrambled, but that is just because they’re my own personal notes that I’m sharing with ya! These are the takeaways I found most important.

BOOK STRUCTURE:
The book is set up in 7 different chapters:

Clarity
Focus
Purpose
Concentration
Excellence
People
Persistence

BRIAN TRACY’S BULLSEYE: THE POWER OF FOCUS BOOK SUMMARY
Chapter 1. Clarity
To hit your life’s target, you have to be 100% clear about your goals, otherwise you will be aiming for nothing.

Time management & choosing priorities:
Think about the consequences of doing or not doing a task.

Even in the worst conditions, you will still eventually hit the target somewhere, as long as you are aiming, according to the law of probability.
However, if you improve your aim, get a coach, and assist yourself in attaining that goal, your chances of achieving and hitting your target are exponentially higher.

Favorite Quote for This Chapter:

“The fact is that you can’t hit a target that you can’t SEE. – Zig Ziglar”
“Of all the things you can do, the quality of your thinking has the greatest consequences of all. The quality of your thinking determines the quality of your choices and decisions. Your choices and decisions determine the actions you take. And the actions you take determine the quality and quantity of your results. In life and work, results are everything.”
 

Chapter 2. Focus
Goal setting has 7 steps:

Decide exactly what you want. Be specific.
Write it down & make it measurable.
Set a deadline. There are no unrealistic goals – only unrealistic deadlines.
Make a list – everything you’ll need to do, and all obstacles you will run into, to achieve your goal
Organize the list into a plan by sequence and priority, using the 80/20 rule
Take action on your activities. Do something. Do anything. The key to success has always been to have courage, overcome the inertia most people have, and simply take the first step. You can always see the next step. It is ALWAYS there.
Do something every day that moves you towards your most important goal. No matter the goal, you will eventually hit the goal because you develop what is called the Momentum Principle of Success.
Favorite Quotes from Chapter 2:

“People think they have goals, but they don’t. They say “I want to be rich” but they don’t define their goal any more than that. That is simply a wish.”
“Only 3 percent of adults have written goals, and these people, according to studies done at Yale and Harvard, eventually earn ten times as much as people without goals. The very act of writing down your goals moves you into the top 3 percent of adults living today.”
 

Chapter 3: Purpose
2 types of needs according to Abraham Maslow:

Deficiency needs – fears, doubts, worries, unresolved conflicts that hold you back
Being needs – qualities of self-actualizing people who realize their full potential

Create a personal and career Mission Statement that has The Big Five:

Values
Vision
Purpose
Mission
Goals
 

Favorite Quote from Chapter 3:

“You are designed in a special way by the creator to only really feel good about yourself when you are serving other people in some way. Your level of self-esteem and personal value, how much you like yourself, is largely determined by making a greater contribution to the lives of others than whatever it is you are taking out.”
 


 

Chapter 4: Concentration
Concentration takes practice – but once it’s learned, it’s easy!

We are distracted – especially in today’s technological world. According to neuroscientists, we are addicted to each ding, noise or notification from electronics. Get away from these, use discipline and repetition to starve your distractions.

To reach your goals, you need to start and finish the work and tasks you created out of your goals.

Time management, focus and concentration require discipline, practice and repetition at first, and then: “you are able to accomplish vastly more than most of the people around you”.

 

To increase your productivity:

Six P Formula: Proper Prior Preparation Prevents Poor Performance
Never start work unless you’ve created a checklist with each task or activity necessary to complete your goal, organized by sequence.
Make a list of everything you need to do to complete every project you have in your future. Each month, week, and day, create tasks you need to do for them. That way you always have a guideline to follow and know exactly what you should be doing each time you are ready to work, and they align directly with your goals.
Practice Single Handling – Complete your very most important task to 100% completion before moving on to anything else.
For each day, create a task list.
Use the ABCDE method to organize your list.
A = Must do
B = Should do
C = Nice to do
D = Delegate
E = Eliminate
 

Setting Priorities:

If I could only do one thing all day long, what would be the most valuable task I could do in my work?
What can only I do that can make a real difference?
What’s the most valuable use of my time right now?
 

Favorite Quotes from Chapter 4:

“Aristotle said, We are what we repeatedly do. Fully 95% of what we do each day is habitual, automatic, and often unthinking. The key is for you to form good habits and make them your masters.”
“Practice does not make perfect. Practice makes permanent.“
“Every minute spent planning saves ten minutes in execution.”
“The rule is that you will never get caught up. You cannot continually seek ways to work more efficiently so that you can do more things. The only way you can get control of your time and your life is to stop doing things. In this sense, perhaps the very best rule is just say no!”
“Practice creative procrastination. This means you deliberately procrastinate on those activities of low value so that you have more time available to complete the tasks most important to your career.”
“Every big achievement was preceded by hundreds, even thousands of small efforts and activities that no one ever sees or appreciates.”
 

Chapter 5 – Excellence
Self-Esteem Psychology –“the basic principle is that your self-esteem, defined as how much you like yourself, largely determines everything that happens to you in life.”

Everyone is really good at one thing. Find out what your area of excellence is and become very very good in that thing.

Remember that everyone starts at the bottom – everyone in the top 20% starts at the bottom 80%.

It’s usually said that the top 1% of earners earn more than the other 99%. However, the real numbers are more like 3% versus 97%.
“It’s the 3% of people with clear, written goals and plans that they work on every day who eventually end up earning more than the other 97% put together.”

Most people learn their craft at a new job for the first year, and then stop learning. After 10 years, they are at the same level, and haven’t improved. “Their salaries reflect this lack of increased productivity”

How do you achieve excellence in all of these skills? You take one step at a time, hone one skill at a time.

“By mastering the one skill that can be the most helpful to you at that moment.”

 

Ask yourself:

“What one skill, if I developed it and did it in an excellent fashion consistently, would have the greatest positive impact on my career?” (For me, I think it would be networking or selling!)

“To answer this question, you require our three old friends: clarity, focus and concentration. You must be clear about the one skill that can help you the most. You must focus single-mindedly on the development of that skill. You must concentrate an average of two hours a day, five days per week, or even more, on the development of that skill to a higher level. If you do this, your future is virtually guaranteed.”

 

Favorite Quotes from Chapter 5:

“To achieve a goal that you have never achieved before, you must develop a skill you’ve never had before“
“The more you like yourself, the bigger the goals you will set and the longer you will persist. The more you like yourself, the healthier and happier you will be – physically, mentally, and emotionally”
“Income inequality is largely self-determined. You largely decide the amount you earn from your work over the course of your career.”
“High earners are focused on developing one skill at a time, clearly and deliberately, throughout their careers.”
 

Chapter 6 – People
Your success largely depends on the people you know and who know you in a positive way.
Brian shows us a formula in which this is tangible:

QR x QR = QL

The quality of your relationships (QR) multiplied by the quantity of your relationships (QR) equals the quality of your life (QL).

Make a list of all the people you will need assistance from to achieve your goals. Then, remember these acronyms and use them to your advantage:

WIIFM (What’s in it for me?)
WIIFMC (What’s in it for my customer?)
 

There Are Two Types of People:
“People who see others as tools to be manipulated from whom they can gain something to their advantage
As unique individuals with wants, needs, and personalities that make them valuable within their own right”
 

Network Regularly:
“Network with as many different people as possible throughout your life and your career. The bottom 80% of people in our society, those whose income has flattened out, who suffer job insecurity, and who are frustrated with their lives, usually go home every night and watch television or socialize with their friends.

The top 20 percent of people on the other hand, are continually seeking out opportunities to network and interact with other people they might be able to help and who might be able to help them in turn.”

One person can make a difference.

Join local business clubs, associations, get involved, meet other people. Ask them what their current work is like and be thinking about how you can help them first.

When you do random small acts of kindness, you never know how it will affect future endeavors for you or from that person, or someone else.

 

7 Great Behaviors
(there’s 9, but that’s what he mentioned in this book)

Never criticize, condemn, or complain about people or their behaviors.
Be agreeable – ask yourself, what’s important here? if it’s not really important, just let it go.
Practice acceptance
Express appreciation
Express admiration
Express approval
Pay attention
Question for clarification
In conversation, feed back what the other person has said in your own words
 

Favorite Quotes from Chapter 6:

“You must become a “go-giver” rather than a “go-getter”
Top people think “what can I give to this person that they want, need and appreciate that might be the beginning of a positive relationship?”
“Mary Kay Ash from Mary Kay Cosmetics was famous for saying that you should imagine that every person you meet has a sign around their neck that reads “Make me feel important.” This is the secret of excellent relationships with other people.”
 


 

Chapter 7 – Persistence
Expect that as soon as you set a goal you will run into roadblocks or turbulence. Just realize that this is all expected, and to continue forward.

Remember, this is exactly what you’re going to run into. There’s not an “if” you run into roadblocks, it’s when. It will happen, and when it does, you can be prepared. Part of your character is resilience in the face of adversity.

 

Things to help you when you experience difficulties:

Stay calm
Get the facts
Look for the good in every situation
Seek the valuable lesson in every difficulty or temporary failure
 

When you do fail or make a mistake:

Accept responsibility for the problem, whatever it is
Be solution oriented – successful people know that life is full of problems. Ride the wave, and don’t bother reacting negatively to them. Solve the problem and move on.
Preprogram your mind – decide in advanced that you won’t give up or stop no matter what problems you run into
 

When faced with a problem, write out the exact problem clearly. Write out all possible solutions. Then, write out the worst possible outcome. You’ll see that fear and worry suddenly drops away, and your mind is once again in control and clear. Otherwise, focus on your goals.

 

Favorite Quotes from Chapter 7:

“To eliminate worry and develop persistence, get so busy working on your goal that you don’t have time to worry about your problems or difficulties. The only real cure for worry is persistent, continuous action in the direction of your most important goal.”
“There’s no such thing as failure – only feedback”
 

Brian Tracy’s Bullseye: The Power of Focus Book Summary
To hit your life’s Bulls-Eye, you need to be very clear on what your goals are, work on them every day. “You must focus and concentrate on the most important things you can do to achieve the most important goals. You must resolve to persist until you succeed. You must make the decision in advanced that no matter what happens you will never give up.”

3 FAVORITE QUOTES:
“The Law of Probability says there is a probability that everything can happen and that these probabilities can be calculated with tremendous accuracy. One of the greatest discoveries is that you can increase the probability of success in any field by doing more of the things other successful people do.”
“Steve Jobs, Apple’s mission statement was, “To put a ding in the universe.”
“The most important work you do in life is THINKING.”
 

3 FAVORITE TAKEAWAYS:
Brian Tracy believes in the law of attraction. He says, “writing down your goals activates the Law of Attraction and beings attracting into your life the people, ideas, and resources that will help you move toward the goals and to start the goals moving toward you.”
“In its simplest terms, success is the result of task completion.”
In life, you get no points or rewards for partial task completion, even if you complete a task 95%.”
